So to record samples,
we're going to go back to the code,
I mean, we can leave it in there and
write it below, that's fine.
So we had our buttonsContainer.
So here we have buttonsContainer, and
we gonna have an on mouse down event,
because we're going to steal,
we going want to keep running
the logic while the mouse is down.
So that we don't have to do click record,
click record that would be annoying.
So if we do on mouse down and
then we have an event object and
the way that I did it here pretty
simply is that if the target
of the event is the first
of our record buttons.
Then if we look at the html file,
the first is the left sample.
So again, that's not very dynamic,
that's kind of hard coded, but
you could update the UI later.
And here what we're going to do is
we're going to call a function we
haven't written yet, but
that's called handleAddExample and
we're passing it 0 as kind of like
our label for the left gesture.
And if it's not, if the button that
is pressed is not the first one,
it's the second one,
then we can handleAddExample1.
So sometimes as well,
your labels instead of being strings,
they're being transformed into a number.
So you have 0, 1, 2 and things like that,
depending on the index in the array
of labels that you have here.
So at the moment, when we press the button
is going to call this function,
but we have not read enough function yet.
Before we do that,
actually not before we are going to
create our handle AddExample now.
So if we do const handleAddExample,
this is going to be an async function and
we pass it the label index,
so label index.
So what this is going to do, first of all,
we had a mouse down variable.
We're gonna set it to true because
while we're clicking or mouse downing,
we're gonna set it to true because
then we're gonna have a loop lock.
So as long as you're clicking on
the button, then we're gonna addExamples.
But first, we had a total,
basically in the UI,
we want to update to this total
as we're adding examples as well.
So we're gonna have just
a total variable and
what we're going to do is, Yes, okay?
So let me just check something,
I forgot what I was doing here.
So document.getElementsById.
And here at the beginning we declared
our labels variable with left and right.
So we're just gonna do labels and
then the label index because if it's 0,
then it will be left and
we're just doing that.
So it's just a dynamic way of saying
we're getting this right total
instead of left total.
What you could do instead is to get
these elements separately and say,
this is the left example,
right example, and
you change them over time just
to be a bit more dynamic.
We're getting the labels and we're getting
the idea of the element based on that.
It's just maybe a bit
more overcomplicated, but
you can rewrite it if you want later.
So we were saying that while
we're clicking on the mouse,
we want to add example.
So we gonna have while mouseDown.
We're gonna call the function
we have not written yet either.
But here we're gonna no, careful
with auto complete we're not calling
handleAddExample again, but addExample,
and we're passing it the index as well.
And we want to update our total
variable to be able to be one example,
two examples, three examples, for
as long as we're pressing on the button.
So we have our div, and
we are changing the inner text,
so total.innerText, and
we're going to ++ our totals
that was declared at the top,
the array with 0, 0,
and we are increasing the total
that was in this array.
And we're putting that
into our variable here.
So what that means is that when you're
gonna click is going to look at that
total array of 0, 0 is gonna increment
the one that I'm currently selecting.
And, adding that number into the variable.
And something that you that is available
with TensorFlow just as well is
something called nextFrame.
And that basically returns a promise when
request animation frame is computed.
So that it's kind of maybe allows it
to not just kind of block your browser.
Okay, so we have the first
handler of the AddExample, but
we created here a function called
addExample that we have not yet created.
And that might start to become
a little bit more complicated.
So let's see what we can do with this.
So we create the addExample function here,
and
that's also going to be an async function.
And as before, we passed it the label
index, I'm just gonna call it index.
And when we're adding example, what this
means is that we're taking a snapshot
of the camera and
feeding it into the model.
So the first thing that we need to do
is get this snapshot of the camera.
So I just created a separate
function called getImage.
And maybe before we keep writing
what's in the addExample,
let's create that getImage so that we
kind of have an idea of what it does.
So we have const,
getImage to be an async function as well.
And here, if we were looking again
at the way we declared the camera or
the webcam, here it was with tfd.webcam.
So there is a method available
on it that's called capture.
So the image here is,
we're going to await, webcam.capture,
and that's going to be the image
captured from the webcam feed.
So at this point, we have an image,
but usually what you have
to do is you might do a little bit
of resizing or process the image.
So what we can do is const processed
image or resized image or anything.
And so the way that it's done in my
example, is I'm introducing a new function
that I have not talked about yet
that's called a tf.tidy and it's basically
a way to make sure that you're not
keeping too many things in memory.
So it's kinda cleaning up after it's done,
because when we're taking the image,
we're fitting it to the model, but
we don't need to keep that image in memory
cuz what we're gonna need is the model.
We don't need to keep all the image.
So tf.tidy on its own it
actually takes a function.
So we can do this and we are going to
call a few different methods that I maybe
can explain more tomorrow,
where we have the image.
And we need to expand it's dimensions
because the model might have
been trained with four dimensions and
maybe this image has only one.
So in terms of tensor,
sometimes you also have to give
it the dimension of the tensor.
So if you have a model that was trained
with the dimension like three numbers and
you actually give it something with four,
it's not going to be able to run with it.
So I can go further into that tomorrow
cuz we're gonna go a little bit
deeper into it.
But then we called, toFloat.
So whatever is going to
be returned from this,
we want to transform
it into float numbers.
And then we divide by 127 and
I think that it's a transformation thing
on the image and then I had .sub1.
And so
I can get back into this kind of thing,
we're gonna write something kind
of similar to Mura as well.
But these are all methods that are used to
transform the original image that we have.
What you can do later, if you want,
is to try to see what happens
when you don't use these methods.
And it's probably going to return an error
because the model was expecting a certain
shape, and
you need to figure out what that is and
transform your current image into that.
So what we are doing here then is that we
are going to need the processed image, but
we don't need to keep the image
created from the capture in memory.
So we do is dispose.
So we are disposing here
of the original image and
we're just returning the processed image.
So the image that has been resized and
optimized to work with our model.
So this is our getImage function.
So now that we've written it here,
we can go back into our
addExample function here.
So once we get an image from the webcam.
We are starting by feeding it to
the original model to get kind
of an example label, so
we can have example here as a variable,
and we are gonna call predict on our
initial model that we created above.
So we do predict, and we pass it the image
that we just got from the webcam.
And at this point, this example, variable
is going to be kind of kept in memory and
concatenated with subsequent
examples until where it's
actually ready to be used to
create a totally new model.
So maybe as I'm talking about it right
now, it doesn't make the most sense,
but as we're gonna put it together,
hopefully it will a little bit more.
Just before I add the example function,
what we can do is create,
let's say, I wanted to call it
maybe examples and labels, but
that might be confusing or that might be
conflicting with other variables later on.
So the way that they sometimes shrink
it is to just like xs and xy, but
that is basically going to be, xs is
going to be the actual example data and
xy is going to be the labels
attached to these pieces of data.
So we can do it like this and
then at first,
we're going to create a y
variable maybe y isn't
optimized I'm not quite sure
how to call it right now.
Let's start with y and
then maybe you can rename it later.
But again, we're gonna write
a function inside the tf.tidy function
to again clean it up once we're
done with what we're doing here.
We're gonna create what's called a one-hot
tensor and that is basically turning yeah,
categorical data into numerical data.
So instead of having to feed it like
right and left is just gonna be 0 and
1 and numbers starting from 0.
So we have one-hot,
it's called one-hot tensor, and
you have to declare your
tensor inside it as well.
So we have tf.tensor1d and
here it just means that
the data is written as
a one-dimensional array.
We don't need to actually create,
we can have tensor 2D, 3D,
4D, just depending on how
complex your data is.
But here for the image, we're just
transforming the image into a very long
array of just one-dimensional data.
And what we need to pass in
it is the index because we're
creating one- dimensional tensor
of just the index for that image.
I'm not quite sure, there might be
different ways to do this as well cuz that
kind of seems maybe over computed.
So maybe I'll see tomorrow if we can
simplify a little bit but for now,
it starts with this, and
you have to call toInteger on it.
Sorry, the toInteger is after the oneHot,
so it's the oneHot tensor that
we are converting to integers.
And then we're passing labels.length.
So what's gonna end up happening
here is that I think as a result,
we should get an array of maybe
it's gonna be something like 0 and
then labels length will be 2 and
things like that, okay?
So what do we do with that variable?
We'll see that, shortly.
But we had an xs and xy here.
So first of all,
if these are empty, because they
are not set at first,
oops, so if they are null,
we have not yet
added any example to create our model.
So the first thing we're gonna do,
we're gonna set a value, to xs and
it's going to be tf.keep the example.
So here the example that we had
is a prediction from the model.
I mean, .keep is kind of a way
to keep it in memory and
we're going to concatenate
everything in the else statement.
But at first access is set to
the prediction from the example and
xy is going to be the label.
So we're going to keep the label
that we just declared above.
And in the else statement, so if one
example has already been added, then we
are going to concatenate our examples
all together before training the model.
So here we can have a previous x,
and that will be equal to access.
And we're going to redefine x or
add a new value to it, and
that's going to be our tf.keep again,
but we're going to concatenate so
we're using our previous version.
My notes are annoying, okay?
Our previous version of sorry,
previous x, sorry.
And we're going to concat in it,
our new example because while we're at
this point, we have the example here.
That's a prediction again, but we're
going into the else statement this time.
And another one of this is a 0,
I forgot what this second value is.
Let's move on for now and we're doing
the same for the y value as well.
So the labels, so we can kind of copy but
change it from xs to xy, and then xy here.
And then instead of previous x,
we're concatenating the labels.
And instead of example is going to be y.
So in the end, xs is going to be a big
concatenation of all the examples,
and then xy is going to be all
the concatenation from the labels.
And again, we don't want to keep
too much stuff in memory, so
we're going to dispose of them.
So previousX.dispose, and
then previousY.dispose and
then we can also dispose of y here.
Oops, dispose and
we can also dispose of the image, okay?
So at this point,
this is the main function that's
adding all the examples
together into some kind of
data that we're gonna be
able to use later on.